When training a neural network,
one of the techniques
to speed up
your training is if you
normalize your inputs.
Let's see what that means.
Let's see the training sets
with two input features.
The input features x
are two-dimensional
and here's a scatter plot
of your training set.
Normalizing your inputs
corresponds to two steps,
the first is to subtract out
or to zero out the mean,
so your sets mu equals 1 over m,
sum over I of x_i.
This is a vector and then x gets
set as x minus mu for
every training example.
This means that you just move
the training set until
it has zero mean.
Then the second step is to
normalize the variances.
Notice here that
the feature x_1 has
a much larger variance
than the feature x_2 here.
What we do is set
sigma equals 1 over
m sum of x_i star, star 2.
I guess this is
element-y squaring.
Now sigma squared is a vector
with the variances of
each of the features.
Notice we've already
subtracted out the mean,
so x_i squared, element-y
square is just the variances.
You take each example and
divide it by this vector sigma.
In some pictures, you end
up with this where now
the variance of x_1 and
x_2 are both equal to one.
One tip. If you use this to
scale your training data,
then use the same mu and
sigma to normalize
your test set.
In particular, you don't want to
normalize the training set
and a test set differently.
Whatever this value is and
whatever this value is,
use them in these two formulas
so that you scale
your test set in
exactly the same way rather
than estimating mu and
sigma squared separately on
your training set and test set,
because you want your data
both training and test
examples to go through
the same transformation
defined by
the same Mu and Sigma squared
calculated on your
training data.
Why do we do this?
Why do we want to normalize
the input features?
Recall that the cost function is
defined as written
on the top right.
It turns out that if you use
unnormalized input features,
it's more likely that
your cost function
will look like this,
like a very squished out bar,
very elongated cost function
where the minimum you're
trying to find is
maybe over there.
But if your features are
on very different scales,
say the feature x_1 ranges
from 1-1,000 and the feature
x_2 ranges from 0-1,
then it turns out that
the ratio or the
range of values for
the parameters w_1 and
w_2 will end up taking on
very different values.
Maybe these axes
should be w_1 and w_2,
but the intuition
of plot w and b,
cost function can be very
elongated bow like that.
If you plot the contours
of this function,
you can have a very elongated
function like that.
Whereas if you
normalize the features,
then your cost function
will on average look
more symmetric.
If you are running
gradient decent
on a cost function like
the one on the left,
then you might
have to use a very
small learning rate
because if you're here,
the gradient decent might need
a lot of steps to
oscillate back and
forth before it finally finds
its way to the minimum.
Whereas if you have more
spherical contours,
then wherever you start,
gradient descent can pretty
much go straight to the minimum.
You can take much larger steps
where gradient descent need,
rather than needing to
oscillate around like
the picture on the left.
Of course, in practice,
w is a high dimensional vector.
Trying to plot
this in 2D doesn't
convey all the
intuitions correctly.
But the rough intuition
that you cost function
will be in a more round and
easier to optimize when you're
features are on similar scales.
Not from 1-1000, 0-1,
but mostly from minus 1-1
or about similar
variance as each other.
That just makes
your cost function
j easier and faster to optimize.
In practice, if one feature,
say x_1 ranges from 0-1 and
x_2 ranges from minus 1-1,
and x_3 ranges from 1-2,
these are fairly similar ranges,
so this will work just fine,
is when they are on dramatically
different ranges like
ones from 1-1000 and
another from 0-1.
That really hurts your
optimization algorithm.
That by just setting all
of them to zero mean
and say variance one like
we did on the last slide,
that just guarantees that
all your features are in
a similar scale and will
usually help you learning
algorithm run faster.
If your input features came
from very different scales,
maybe some features
are from 0-1,
sum from 1-1000, then it's
important to normalize
your features.
If your features came
in on similar scales,
then this step is less
important although performing
this type of normalization
pretty much never does any harm.
Often you'll do it anyway,
if I'm not sure whether
or not it will help
with speeding up training
for your algorithm.
That's it for normalizing
your input features.
Next, let's keep
talking about ways to
speed up the training
of your neural network.